You're wearing your WHITE hat today, correct, dear student?

Let's perform an SQL Injection attack just to see how it can be done!

NOTE: We'll probably do this after class assignment in class, anyway, but you're welcome to follow the instructions
in the original assignment in Canvas if you want to make your own repo for practice, etc., but you don't have to. 

Just forking and cloning this repo, following the instructions, and submitting your fork's url is enough. 
If you still use the original activity, make sure to stop at number 3 and copy the remaining code to be copied/follow the instructions
in this repo (not the solution code repo from HackerU) because of some unfortunate bugginess.

Here is the original description of the assignment from the original Canvas page:

"In order to take a closer look at SQL injection attacks, we're going to mount one ourselves. 
This activity will allow us to mimic an SQL injection attack using a small app of our own creation. 
The app will consist of a simple log in and a mock user database on the back end that has purposefully 
been left vulnerable to an SQL injection attack.

1. First of all, get your fork of this repo up and running by installing these three packages:

   express
   sqlite3
   body-parser

2. Read the long comments in the app.js file (And make sure not to uncomment anything you're not asked to uncomment). 

   Make sure that you've read all of these comments, you understand them, and that you've followed them before starting Step 3.

3. Type/copy-then-paste this exact info in the password field as if you were a valid user: unknown' OR '1'='1 

4. At this point, the user you inserted in the db should be logged in even though the correct username was not submitted! 

   (If you follow the instructions in the app.js file, you'll see the message "Login successful" on the page)

   So... not only can a bad actor get into a user's account with malicious intent, more queries could be added to the original query injected or in subsequent inputs.

TROUBLESHOOTING: 

   - If you forget your username or password before completing the attack successfully, you'll need to delete the package.json file
the node_modules folder and then run npm install again. 

   - There's no specific way to log out that's been set up, but it's not necessary to get the login form and see how SQL injection
works from this activity. All you need to do is enter the login credentials again.

   - You can go to localhost:3000 without the /login after it to refresh back to the login form and start over if you seem to get stuck.

Extended Tasks:

1. You can check out this video, currently on YouTube, which does a quite thorough job of explaining SQL Injection and has a related Kontra-like exercise: https://youtu.be/2OPVViV-GQk

2. You could try to inject other kinds of SQL statements that can manipulate the DB in malicious ways by entering it as the username. 
You could do this by adding more expressions for the sqlite database definition (after the expressions for creating the user db and then seeding it).

If you do Number 2 above, you may need to do more research on sqlite3 "in-memory" databases, which work differently than other SQL platforms/dialects such as PostgreSQL because they don't have a 
separate server process (SQLite has an "embedded database engine"). Some kinds of SQL statements, such as dropping a table, might not work the way they would
with db that actually persists records. (Note: sqlite3 is a lightweight SQL dialect that comes out of the box with the Ruby on Rails and Django frameworks.)


Happy (white hat) hacking!

